## Digital Analysis (Lab Four)

The tools in this unit are more traditional digital humanities research
tools, and they help researchers leverage technology to better
understand humans. The things you can analyze with the tools covered
here range from the best (high literature) to the worst (social media)
and everything between. What can you learn about humanity using these
tools? What interests you?

 

#### Where to Start

Explore the three different tools and consider the types of questions
you might be able to answer with each of them.

Then, do some searching for a lengthy text or website (if your tool
allows it). You could search a specific book, or several books by the
same author (or compare and contrast sets of books like the Rambsy
article in this unit). This link has [literary
corpora.](https://www.clarin.eu/resource-families/literary-corpora) Not
into literature? Take a tour of this [corpora of political
speeches](https://digital.lib.hkbu.edu.hk/corpus/). Speak another
language? You might be interested in these corpora [in other
languages.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_text_corpora)

Once you find a large text, conduct your **scholarly research** to add
more dimension and perspective to your project. (See links under \"what
is due\" for helpful places to start). You can do this the other way
around, as well: first find 2 scholarly sources on a topic, then look
for a larger text to analyze.

What conclusions can you draw from your use of this tool? What
conclusions can you **not **draw from your use of this tool?

 

#### What is Due

The **direct link to **a separate page (or blog post) **on your
website** that contains:

1.  A paragraph (\~2-3 sentences) explaining what you did
    (what **tool**, what body of **text**, and what **term **did you
    use?)

2.  A paragraph or two (\~100-150 words) explaining your **results **

    -   What did the **tool **tell you?

    -   What can you **conclude** based on what the tool told you?

    -   What **can\'t **you conclude?

3.  At least **two scholarly citations in parenthetical citation
    format:**

    -   **Remember, scholarly means peer-reviewed. At least 2 sources
        have to be from academic journals. These aren\'t websites or
        primary sources.**

    -   Who else is writing about this topic? 

    -   Who else has used this tool or a similar one to answer a similar
        question? (It can be on a different topic - \"This author\'s
        explanation of #blm helped me understand the tweets that
        included #pride\" or \"This author investigated the mention of
        the word \"woman\" in 19th century literature, and I searched
        for the same term in 17th century literature\" etc.)

    -   You can [start here](https://library.ucf.edu/) but click
        \"articles\" under the Primo search

    -   [Another great place to
        look](https://guides.ucf.edu/database/AcademicSearchPremier) (pro
        tip: click \"Cite\" on the right hand side once you find your
        article in here for the citation information)

4.  A **Works Cited or References** \"page\"

    -   Instead of a separate page, like it would be in a Word document,
        this will be a list under the paragraphs above

    -   Include a citation of **the tool** and a link to it in case your
        audience wants to try it out (just paste the one from the
        Webcourses page)

    -   [What are MLA parenthetical
        citations](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/mla_style/mla_formatting_and_style_guide/mla_in_text_citations_the_basics.html)?

    -   [How should my Works Cited page
        look](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/mla_style/mla_formatting_and_style_guide/mla_sample_works_cited_page.html)?

    -   [How do I cite this academic journal
        article](https://libguides.sccsc.edu/MLA/journalarticle)?

## Explore

### AntConc

**AntConc: <https://ucfonline.maps.arcgis.com/home/index.html> **

#### Overview

AntConc is a \"freeware corpus analysis toolkit for concordancing and
text analysis.\" In this context, \"corpus\" means a body of text\--this
could be as specific as a paragraph or as voluminous as everything ever
written in English. (Okay that last example doesn\'t exist
electronically, but [here\'s a list of large
corpora](https://guides.lib.uw.edu/c.php?g=371295&p=2509735#:~:text=%22The%20COCA%20is%20the%20largest,%2C%20newspapers%2C%20and%20academic%20texts.)).

#### Examples

-   [Example with James
    Joyce](https://hecc.ubc.ca/quantitative-textual-analysis/qta-practice/antconc-the-place-to-start/)

-   [Linguistic Analysis of Science Teachers\' Narratives Using AntConc
    Software](https://www.igi-global.com/chapter/linguistic-analysis-of-science-teachers-narratives-using-antconc-software/303043)

-   [Research on the Rise of Digital Humanities and the Turn of Literary
    Study Based on
    AntConc](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9752732)

####  Resources

-   [Written tutorial with screenshots
    (PDF)](http://www.laurenceanthony.net/software/antconc/resources/help_AntConc321_english.pdf)

-   [Getting started with AntConc 4
    (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=br3v9rQKpyo)

-   [Comparing corpora (toward the end of the
    tutorial)](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/corpus-analysis-with-antconc)

-   [Explanation of the different tools within
    AntConc](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341362186_Corpus_Analysis_with_Antconc)

-   [Corpus Analysis with
    AntConc](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/corpus-analysis-with-antconc)

-   [Published paper explaining AntConc and the
    features ](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=8fcf61b24235fd4866993ac2cee72e92f100a9b1)

-   [Project Gutenberg (you can find some corpora
    here)](https://www.gutenberg.org/)

-   [More
    corpora](https://guides.lib.uw.edu/c.php?g=371295&p=2509735#:~:text=%22The%20COCA%20is%20the%20largest,%2C%20newspapers%2C%20and%20academic%20texts.)
