## Digital Narrative (Lab Three) {#digital-narrative-lab-three .unnumbered}

You have several options for user-friendly platforms to create powerful
interactive narrative experiences. 

In Twine, Bitsy, and Omeka, you can create different possibilities for
your reader/player, you will be rather deeply considering different
perspectives, scenarios, etc. for a given topic and narrative.

All of these tools ask you to think deeply and differently about what a
narrative is, what it means to tell a story, and how the author and the
reader/player can share roles.

#### Where to Start {#where-to-start .unnumbered}

Decide what **topic** your narrative will target- this is the critical
making aspect. What \'ism\' or theory or literary perspective might your
story, game, timeline, or collection use to make an argument about the
world?

What types of genres and perspectives might be best suited for a
choose-your-own-adventure style interactive narrative? 

What choices will your reader or player need to make?

How will your user interact with your project?

**Scope alert! **Beware of scope creep. You do not want 1,000 choices!
Begin with the **overall experience **you want your audience to have. A
feeling, a concept, etc. Plan out the general beginning, middle, and end
points. Then fill in the details. 

#### What is Due {#what-is-due .unnumbered}

An **interactive, polished** narrative that:

-   a **complete narrative arc **(I\'m really just looking for a clear
    beginning, middle, and end).

-   unique **choices **on **most **of the passages (occasionally, for
    dramatic effect, you may want to limit the player to only one
    choice, but use this intentionally and sparingly)

-   makes a statement about (some aspect of) humanity (this can call
    attention to, question, critique, or celebrate)

-   **includes **a **text abstract/introduction** that:

    -   explains the statement the narrative makes (100-200 words)

    -   includes a least one **citation **of a **[scholarly
        source](https://guides.ucf.edu/c.php?g=78763&p=508976) **within
        the abstract 

        -   prove you aren\'t the only one seeing these issues in the
            world

        -   where can your audience go to learn more about your topic?

            -   [MLA citation
                guide](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/mla_style/mla_formatting_and_style_guide/mla_in_text_citations_the_basics.html)

            -   [APA citation
                guide](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide/in_text_citations_the_basics.html)

#### File Format {#file-format .unnumbered}

-   **Website link**

1.  -   Please publish your narrative on your **digital portfolio
        website. **

        -   If you used a tool that requires a download, consider
            publishing it on for
            free [www.itch.io](http://www.itch.io/) and linking it to
            your site from there (include the password in the assignment
            comments if you password-protected it)

        -   Some website platforms will allow you to upload and store
            files to their site, but often for a fee.

        -   Genial.ly should allow you to embed the narrative directly
            to your website.

        -   **Please contact me if you have trouble with this step.**

-   **Abstract **- 2 options:

    1.  Text on your portfolio website beside/above/below the link to
        your narrative

    2.  Included **within **the narrative itself as an introduction or
        postlude

## Explore {#explore .unnumbered}

### Twine

**Twine: <https://twinery.org/> **

#### Overview {#overview .unnumbered}

Twine is a text-based interactive narrative platform. It has gotten more
and more user-friendly over the years, to the point that the tutorials
for courses I taught a few years ago are not really useful! 

To create a Twine narrative, you just type your passage into a
word-processing box, then link that passage to the next passage. Each
passage can have one or many options\--and each option can go to a
different passage or the same, or a mix of these. 

Note: There are [several versions of
Twine](https://twinery.org/cookbook/introduction/story_formats.html), so
if you come across a tutorial that doesn\'t seem to match what you are
seeing on your computer, this is probably why. It\'s helpful to search
for the specific type of Twine you are using.

Want the most simple, in-browser option? That\'s [Twine
2](https://twinery.org/2/#!/stories).

 

####  Examples {#examples .unnumbered}

-   [Destroy/Wait](http://media.textadventures.co.uk/games/ImqjKROVTkigGxqCniLq9g/destroy.html#4) 

-   [Depression Quest](http://www.depressionquest.com/)

-   [The Deserters](https://collection.eliterature.org/4/the-deserters)

-   [Please Answer
    Carefully](https://litrouke.itch.io/please-answer-carefully)

-   [The Mystery of the Missing
    Ring](https://www.springthing.net/2019/play_online/TheMissingRing/TheMissingRing.html)

-   [Only a
    Prank](https://sarahgivesyouwings.itch.io/only-a-prank) (created by
    a former student)

Examples you can download (zipped files) to see the code:

-   [BeadED
    Adventures](https://webcourses.ucf.edu/courses/1433259/files/99955817?wrap=1)

-   [emPower through
    Play](https://webcourses.ucf.edu/courses/1433259/files/99955818?wrap=1)

####  Resources {#resources .unnumbered}

-   [Twine
    Cookbook](https://twinery.org/cookbook/introduction/twine2_story_listing.html)

-   [The basics: linking from one passage to
    another](https://twinery.org/cookbook/questions/links.html)

-   [Creating your first
    story](https://twinery.org/cookbook/starting/twine2/firststory.html)

-   [How to add images and music
    (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N_CRN9mLbUs)

-   [Introduction to Twine
    (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZnARX2ToqYc)

-   [How to publish & share your twine story/game (so that you can turn
    it in!)](https://libguides.union.edu/c.php?g=1075381&p=7832298)

    -   [How to embed your Twine story in a Wix
        webpage](https://hans946.wixsite.com/webart12/adding-twine-to-wix)

    -   [Plugin for embedding your Twine story on a WordPress
        webpage](https://wordpress.org/plugins/embed-twine/)

### Bitsy

**Bitsy: <https://ledoux.itch.io/bitsy> (click \"run tool\")**

#### Overview {#overview-1 .unnumbered}

Bitsy is a game creation platform that has unique constraints. The
graphics are \"retro\" style, and options are somewhat limited as far as
what games in this platform can and cannot do. If you are someone who
struggles with options, this may be a perfect fit for you! 

My daughter made her first Bitsy game when she was 7 years old, so
don\'t be intimidated!

#### Examples {#examples-1 .unnumbered}

-   [Endless Scroll](https://haraiva.itch.io/endless-scroll)

-   [Download KD\'s First Museum
    Experience](https://webcourses.ucf.edu/courses/1433259/files/99955806/download?download_frd=1)

-   [A Little Turtle](https://aprilswhitehead.itch.io/a-little-turtle-)

-   [A Prison Strike](https://molleindustria.itch.io/a-prison-strike)

-   [The World Has Been Sad Since
    Tuesday](https://vonbednar.itch.io/the-world-was-sad-since-tuesday)

-   [Coffee Boy](https://bee-tea.itch.io/coffeeboy)

-   [Explore more Bitsy games on your
    own](https://itch.io/games/tag-bitsy)

####   Resources {#resources-1 .unnumbered}

-   [Bitsy Tutorials](https://bitsy.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials)

-   [Bitsy Hacks](https://seleb.github.io/bitsy-hacks/) (more advanced)

-   [Bitsy Tutorial
    Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IbgZPCdkY2U&list=PLlXuD3kyVEr7s1qLkKSC2nKXiZFFZsfSz) (in
    a series)

-   [Another Tutorial
    Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8kUKsi_xoQ)

### Omeka

**Omeka: <https://omeka.org/s/download/> (you have to download this
one)**

#### Overview {#overview-2 .unnumbered}

Omeka needs to be downloaded, but once you have done that, it is a
user-friendly way to create curated collections that tell a story.
Consider what times of images, videos, texts, memes, gifs, etc. you have
access to and how, when viewed together or one after another, they may
convey something in a new perspective. 

#### Examples {#examples-2 .unnumbered}

-   [Omeka Showcase](https://omeka.org/classic/showcase/)

-   [History of Women at Virginia
    Tech](http://vtwomenshistory.lib.vt.edu/)

-   [American Museum of Natural History Research Library: Digital
    Special
    Collections](http://images.library.amnh.org/digital/items/show/18760)

-   [The Five Colleges of Ohio Digital
    Exhibition](http://ohio5.org/omeka/)

####  Resources {#resources-2 .unnumbered}

-   [Omeka tour](https://omeka.org/s/tour/)

-   [User manual](https://omeka.org/s/docs/user-manual/)

-   [Omeka tutorial
    (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FncO08PeK9o)

-   [Themes](https://omeka.org/s/themes/)

-   [Additional Omeka
    Resources](https://guides.library.illinois.edu/omeka) (note: we do
    not have access to the University of Illinois\'s Omeka server, so we
    cannot use Omeka.net)
